The IBM Power servers that are used by {{offering.name}} (PowerVS) are located in IBM data centers. These servers are distinct from the IBM Cloud servers with separate networks and direct-attached storage. While the PowerVS internal networks are fenced, they still offer connectivity options to meet customer requirements, including public internet. This carefully calibrated infrastructure enables PowerVS to maintain key software certifications and support like their on-premises infrastructure, but with the added flexibility and capabilities that come from Cloud.

The {{offering.name}} **workspace** allows users to quickly create and deploy one or more virtual server instances (that are running either the AIX, IBM i, or Linux operating systems). After a PowerVS virtual server instance (VSI) is provisioned, users get access to the VSI without the need to manage or operate the physical servers. However, users must manage the operating system, software applications, and data. Given that this course is primarily a demonstration of infrastructure as a service, the guide does not delve deeply into the application layer or the day to day administrative tasks. The guide explores the fundamentals of working with PowerVS VSIs using the IBM Cloud Portal and command-line interfaces (CLIs).

It is important to understand the difference in terminology between a PowerVS **workspace** and a PowerVS **instance**. Think of the PowerVS **workspace** as a container for all PowerVS instances at a specific geographic region. A **workspace** is also similar to a data center. PowerVS **instances** are virtual machines (VMs). For example, a Cloud account can have multiple PowerVS workspaces: one in Dallas, Texas, and another in Washington, D.C. Each service can contain multiple VSIs (also known as VMs). A workspace must be associated with an IBM Cloud resource group. Resource groups help in grouping resources and assigning permissions. To learn more, refer to <a href="https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/power-iaas?topic=power-iaas-getting-started" target="_blank">Getting Started with IBM Power Virtual Server</a>.

The key parameters for a PowerVS workspace are:

- **Data center location type and location**: Data center **location type** can be either **IBM data center** (for PowerVS in IBM Cloud case) or **Client location** (for PowerVS private cloud case). For the sake of this demonstration, location type IBM data center applies. As of April 2025, PowerVS is colocated with 22 IBM Cloud data centers that are located around the world. Consider choosing the data center location that is located nearest to most users that access the PowerVS workloads.

- **Workspace name**: The PowerVS workspace name appears in the IBM Cloud Portal under the provisioned workspace. Specify a name that is easily understood and recognized.

- **Resource group**: Resource groups are used to organize resources in an IBM Cloud account. Administrative and access rights for all PowerVS resources are associated with the PowerVS workspace and not individual PowerVS instances (VMs). After a PowerVS workspace is assigned to a resource group, the resource group cannot be changed.<br>**Tags** can also be specified in the resource group section. Tags are  custom labels that aid in organization, identification, and management. There are 2 types of tags:
    * **User tags**: User tags are added to resources or service IDs by an authorized user in the account. Add user tags to your resources to organize, track, and manage costs for related resources. For example, `env:dev`, `env:test` tags can be used to identify different development environments.
    * **Access management tags**: Access management tags are used to manage access to resources. They can be created in advance for use in access policies, which grant access to the resources where access management tags are attached. For example, `project: lw-wizard`, `app: poc-app` tags can be used to manage access to different projects.
    * For more information on tags, refer to [this document](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-tag&interface=ui){target="_blank"}.

- **Integrations**: When creating a Power Virtual Server workspace, several optional integration options are available to enhance connectivity and functionality. In this demonstration we will leverage the integration of PowerVS with IBM Cloud Monitoring. IBM Cloud Monitoring allows users to gain visibility into the resources (VSIs) in the PowerVS workspace.
